All right welcome back to the students.
I'm so glad that you're here.
I'm really happy that you watching these lectures because this is going to really change your knowledge
.
But anyway on today's lectures we are going to be dealing with relationships right.
I spoke to you a little bit about that on the Angel but what you don't know is that a lot of it has
a couple of different relationships.
It has one to one one to many many too many polymorphic polymorphic one to one polymorphic many many
.
I mean has different relationship models or should I say functionality.
OK.
Now we talked about you know that relationships are functions that relate tables to tables.
Right and that's all they are.
Now they work differently.
All right.
So in a one to one relationship we can say something like OK the user has one post right or they use
it in a many to many or one too many they use as many posts something like that that's how we would
define them we.
And they have very similar functions as as they are pronounced.
All right so if we pronounce you know this user has one post Demetri's has one.
I'll show you in a minute.
But anyway we're going to be dealing with the model so we also need to create a column in the in this
case what we're going to be doing is we're going to be creating a couple of polls that are going to
.
And we're going to say the user has one pulls right and we're going to relate those to there so that
where we can pull out all their users polls.
So for that we need to go to the child in this case is going to be to the parent.
All right.
And we need to write a function here first of all.
All right but before we do that let's actually create a column in polls.
Right.
And migration polls Surely if I can find the migration I can believe this is the migration of polls
.
Right here we go.
All right.
So now what we need to do is add a user ID to our polls table.
OK.
So I'm going to actually do a reset refresh because I don't want to be adding a lot of migrations here
just to add a user table.
We can if we want to.
As a matter of fact limen to look at the database the widow.
I don't have any data so it really doesn't matter for me if you have a lot of data.
Leave it there and just at the table with migration.
OK you know how to do that already.
But anyway I'm going to do an interview here and it's going to be user ID and I explained to you why
we need this is going to be signed because we won all in positive numbers here.
So now once we have this make sure that you refresh or do migrate again if you creating a table now
this column should be available in your post structure user ID is an integer default on 10.
OK beautiful.
Now what we need is some data right.
So let's actually insert it through here.
That way we don't have to on command.
All right.
So they use are these going to be one we haven't created or use or let's do that first.
So insur a user I'm going to name it Edwin one this email when courting faculty
come past 4 1 2 and 3 really doesn't matter.
Are these data.
Here
we go.
So now that we have a user we can go ahead and go to the polls table and create a couple of polls.
I'm just going to say BHB polls one and two and Gerrish content really doesn't matter.
Like I said and I'm going to take this all from here and going to create.
That's it.
And just one pause and I'm going to actually ignore that because I just want to create one polls so
you can see what's going on.
And then I put some time stamp on Ryan and go for a column user id go back what do we do there.
We didn't put our user id last for one.
Ok cool.
All right.
So now that we have done that what we need to do is rather functionality.
I'll show you right now what we need to do.
Let's go to our user Maaro And here we are going to be writing a function that I would I was talking
about that is going to do the job for us.
The Querrey or that Querrey solf public function and we get.
We can call it whatever we want these guys are going to call it post and I'll tell you in a minute what
is going to do.
But it just makes sense to call a post right because we want to pull other users post.
So return this because this method belongs to this to the motto.
That's why we use the word does.
If you don't know about that you need to take my BHB or B course OK.
So this has.
This are pre-build functions or methods has one post forwards.
This is a backslash post and here what we are writing is namespace OK.
There we go.
So that's all you got to do.
Now what is launching Well this is going to do.
This is going to go to the polls table because we gave it a name space.
It's got to look for the column user id automatically this column like this user ID.
This is by default OK by default is going to do it.
Now if you want to specify a different column you put it as a second parameter here coma and you can
say user ID if you named them differently.
All right.
So if you went ahead and you went through your polls here and you name this differently this is where
that's where you change it.
All right.
OK.
This is where you change.
You give it a second parameter now.
This is if you also are you know using have a differing ID for your polls.
If you have a different ID on here you can change as a third parameter and you can define it there.
OK.
So where is it right here.
You can go and ride that one.
That parameter is going to belong to the other ID field.
OK.
All right but we don't have it like that we're going to leave it as default like this.
We're going to touch on this later on in the application so don't worry about it right now.
Just try to understand what we're doing.
And if you don't understand it you do it a couple of times and you will understand.
I can guarantee you that.
All right so now that we have this and we have some data we can pull out some information we can pull
out of their users posts.
So let's go and create a real real quick and let's just try this just comment this out because this
is super important guys.
Let's just put a comment here now.
Relationships are going to make it a lot easier for you to create categories for pools for create polls
related to users.
I mean everything we do in an application is relaying data.
Most of the time we've all the tables right.
So learn this really good and you should have a really cooperation.
All right.
So eloquent relationships.
I love the spell check right.
If you misspell it it will let you know look you're beautiful.
All right so now here let's create a route.
And usually the role will go with the ID.
In this case we could do it like that.
Well what am I doing.
We forgot everything.
So let's do it with the ID.
All right.
So are we going to see a user
post so we're going to find the user first would ID number one.
Or whatever ID we give it.
And just going on we only have one user.
But just for the heck of it I'm just going to put it either an ID there.
So the way you can get used to seeing that.
All right there we go.
As a matter of fact when you say user ID and then the polls like this.
OK.
All right.
So let's go and find the user first user.
And I want you to do one thing already did it.
But let me see if I did that already.
I did it.
But you weren't looking when I did it.
Actually I didn't do that.
Make sure that you import your user model.
This.
A few have in order for us to use the model that class we have to import it right.
So that's what we do they use.
But you remember that if you have a BHP store you have to do is click on these Leibel when you put your
mouse cursor there you wait for that and you came for that class.
But anyway we find the user ID number one right.
Because a user.
And look at this as a matter of I don't even need that.
We can go and say I want the users post just like this return.
All right now that's going to be really strange for you.
I know.
Really strange.
And as a matter of fact we don't need one.
We can't do I.D. here we go.
Let's just do that.
All right.
So this a user would ID number one and give me the post enter and as you can see we got the pulls of
that user.
Isn't that cool guys.
Super cool right.
Really cool stuff.
All right.
You can pulao more information about this.
Of course you can pulao the polls title
title like this and enter as you can see and you access those columns as property.
This is where the cool thing about it is.
All right just like properties you can change them like this and access them there.
OK.
Isn't that beautiful.
All right.
And of course you can pull that information out and save it to your database.
Just like how we learned that you can apply different values to that.
All right.
So just in case you want to pull this information now you can and you can assign different content to
it.
All right.
So just keep that in mind right.
Beautiful.
So anyway.
Now you know how to do the house one relationship in this is house one so if you want to put a comment
here you can you can say has or one to one relationship one to one relation and this is super important
so I'm telling you right now.
Write it down or something.
One to one relationship.
OK.
Anyway.
Practice a lot.
Write it again if it can work for you ask questions is OK but I only take questions if you been stuck
for a couple hours or a couple of days.
Right.
Because I want to make sure that you learn this stuff by actually putting the hard work into it.
Thank you so much for watching.
I'll see you in the next relationship.
Take care.